What will happen?
The Joe Rogan experience,
when was your first time ever getting on stage?
Do you remember?
First time that they used to be a club called Radio Tron here in the 80s.
Right.
And it was the hip hop club.
If you were into hip hop,
any aspect of it,
whether it was wrapping,
break,
dancing,
popping graffitiing all the people went to that spot and um,
it was hard to get in there and it was hard to get on the mic no less.
Um,
but we had a homie who was like a legendary Dj out here when,
when,
um,
the am station was playing hip hop,
his name was Tony g and he was,
uh,
the,
the leader of the mix masters show.
They had mixed master and he had a residency at the radio tron.
So we grew up with one of his,
um,
when his boys,
that was his,
like,
um,
is a protege.
So they invited us over and myself and San got on the mic and mellow and I froze
the fuck.
I tell you,
I froze up.
I forgot every rap I ever wrote or ever memorized.
I was like,
uh,
it would be one of the two times that I would freeze in my life.
And it was,
that was the first time I was on stage and all those people looking at me
waiting,
expecting something,
I totally blew it,
you know?
And I told myself,
okay,
I got to get over the nervousness.
And then the other thing we were doing was,
uh,
it was like,
um,
they,
they wanted rappers to do this PSA for some bullshit,
right.
And they wanted us to write this wrap and put all this certain information in
there.
And I had it,
I had it memorized.
I hadn't locked in the minute they said go and they were filming it,
you know,
this is the film it,
I kept fucking it up horribly.
I didn't even get through it.
I was like,
I'm sorry I can't do it.
Fuck,
you know,
I was getting mad at myself to that fuck.
What's wrong with me?
You know,
I wasn't,
maybe that was a problem.
That was probably the problem,
you know,
cause when I'm not high as,
when it's shit like this happens.
Right.
So those are the two times that I totally fucked it up.
And I like from the last time I said,
I'll never do that again.
I'm going to be prepared and I'm going to get through the anxiety or whatever it
is.
And um,
so those were the first two times.
But the first time on stage where I actually pulled it off was probably one of
our first showcases.
It was at,
uh,
it was at this place off of the 10.
And it wasn't a showcase,
it was actually a competition.
You know,
how they used to do competitions.
It's clubs like fucking uh,
what do they call it?
A,
forgot what they used to call them,
but you know,
different bands with,
it was like a battle of the bands,
right?
So we went in and uh,
I'm coming off of that horrible fucking deal that had just happened,
you know,
maybe a month or two before.
And I totally got over it and we were performing real estate,
you know,
in this showcase and we lost.
But we made the biggest impression there because the song,
you know,
we performed it like,
the way that it's supposed to be.
And then at the end,
Sen dog jumped on the big judges' table and he,
you know,
he grabbed his balls right in front of the fucking female judge.
And then as he jumps off the table,
it breaks in half into her lap.
And,
and everybody loved it.
We lost to these dudes who are like new,
new edition,
want to as we call them,
tootsie rolls.
But we don't remember they won.
But in reality we won because that's,
everybody was talking about us at the end,
you know,
like how raw that was.
And after that show I realized,
you know,
this is,
this is how I'm supposed to do it.
And I seen Krs one,
uh,
do a show one time where the sound went out.
He didn't have a stage,
he was on a couple of tables that were put together and he just got up in front
of the whole club,
no microphone,
no music,
and just started rapping his versus,
and people were rapping right along with them not giving a fuck that the sound
turned off,
but the fact that he just continued to do the show and that right there taught
me a lot about how you control shit on stage as,
yeah.
Sometimes when things go wrong,
it's a great opportunity.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Did it show at the Improv last month?
Like maybe my last month or the month before the power went out and they're
like,
uh,
what do you want to do?
Said fuck it.
Let's do a show.
I could yell.
Yeah.
So we just did with everybody just did the show at no microphone.
But that was,
you know,
the Improv is a small room.
It's only 180 people.
Yeah.
I mean that,
that,
that place was,
you know,
a small place too.
But I mean,
it goes to show you,
man,
like if you got it,
you got to do it.
Yeah.
It's probably better sometimes because it's unique.
Cause people will remember,
you know,
the other way.
Yeah.
You know,
it probably would have been a great show and people would be talking about it,
but they'll remember the fact that you got over that adversity and we're able to
still deliver.
And that's the shit that krs one did for me.
He showed me through the adversity,
he kept doing the show and the people were still with them.
And I thought,
okay,
one day that's going to be me and I'm going to do what the teacher does.
And,
uh,
you know,
that,
that had been one of the most important things that I learned,
you know,
and watching others do shows and stuff like that and what I would do when I got
up there,
you know,
and,
uh,
I,
I applied all those,
those,
you know,
lessons men,
and,
and it's made me who I am as my part of Cypress Hill.
And when I do my solo stuff and when I'm with profits of rage that,
you know,
that got me prepped for everything that I do now in terms of music now,
how did you,
well,
it's good that to you,
for you to tell people that you had a real hard time your first time performing.
Oh yeah.
There's probably a lot of people out there.
They'll never say anxious and yeah,
a lot of people would never say that the lie,
you know?
But that's,
I think that's important and there's nothing wrong with those feelings,
man.
It's,
it's good.
You've got to learn,
man.
You're a kid.
It's,
it's,
it's like,
uh,
you liken it to to like college stars that are coming into the professional
sports now.
Like basketball players for instance.
You get this number one draft pick,
he comes to a team and everybody has these high expectations.
No one knows that this kid,
you know,
some people own the space like Lebron and Kolby and Kevin Garnett who came
straight from high school and they own the space.
The minute they got in it.
I mean,
Colby had to work.
He wasn't the greatest,
you know,
when he,
when he started,
he had to work to get to where he was at and,
and a,
a lot of these guys do,
some of them,
you know,
again,
they come in and they already got it.
You know,
like Lebron,
he was,
you know,
plan and groans,
met grown man's game right when he got into the league,
thrown into the fire.
But he was ready for that.
He got better and,
and learn the role and learned who he was as he's gone.
But he was one of those rare things,
rare people that can just jump into it.
Some people have to get better at it.
And you know,
it's the same thing with music.
Like you get thrown on,
on that big stage for the first time.
If you're not prepped for it,
you're going to definitely be nervous.
You know,
you could either embrace that and it'll,
it'll be your first show and you could do a good one or you could do a horrible
one.
But either way gonna learn from that.
Yeah.
And,
uh,
if you don't learn from it,
then the run is short.
If you learn from it,
you know,
you learn how to get better and,
and sustain a longer career.
How did you learn how to get over the anxiety,
like your first show,
having a,
the first show suck like that.
What was it?
What was,
what did you learn?
Like how did you,
how did,
did you take classes?
Did you read a book?
We don't,
what we did that,
that helped me was that we rehearsed a lot because for me it was like more
remembering the songs.
It wasn't like the nerve to go out in front of people because we came from the
break dance in bboy culture,
uh,
popping and stuff like that.
So much of that is going against someone battling someone in front of a crowd.
And if you can be in front of a crowd doing that,
cause that's vulnerable.
I mean,
you know,
because in a battle you could either win or you lose.
And if you lose,
you know,
obviously you could lose it in an embarrassing way or you lose in a close
battle.
But either way,
people are sitting there watching you,
judging.
You either cheer in your boot in you when you know any one of those.
So that helped me be able to get on stage and perform in front of people.
It will for more from me.
It was more about knowing the songs,
making sure that I know him through the nervousness,
you know?
And it is,
so for us,
we did a lot of rehearsals in the early days just so that those first shows that
we did,
that we were locked in and we made an impression.
And you know,
when we did that and we saw the results of how people were reacting to our show,
it gave me more confidence.
So,
you know,
I'd,
I'd rehearsed the songs in my head,
you know,
when I wasn't around the other guys,
I'd be kicking the songs and I'd be,
or be on a treadmill working out,
say in the songs,
you know,
getting them in my head and just gave me the confidence that I know this fucking
shit.
I go up there,
I'll rock this fucking thing.
I'm not going to forget it because that's always the problem for me.
It was never getting in front of people.
It was do I know my shit and now I know it in such a way that like,
you know,
it's,
it's second nature.
Do I still get those nervous butterflies?
Yeah,
for sure.
Some shows depending who's watching,
who's on the side stage or how big the crowd is and whatnot.
Yet I still get some of that.
But you know,
I,
I do a quick meditation before I go out there,
you know,
just in my head real quick.
And then our band prayer and then that's the,
that's the switch right there.
And we go and we're ready and it,
but it took me a while to get to that,
you know,
because it takes work.
It's like anything,
if you're an athlete,
if you're a boxer,
you're only gonna get better by boxing all the time.
Training all the time,
not overtraining,
but making sure that you're in,
they're putting in the work.
And it's the same thing when you're rocking stages,
you know,
um,
a lot of us sometimes forget to go and put the time in and rehearse and you
could see that when there's a sloppy show or someone's out of breath or they're
not seeing the whole line or they said the line wrong,
or they're changing up fragments of the song to make it easier for their
performance and it doesn't necessarily fit.
That's when,
you know,
somebody's putting in the work.
But for us,
you know,
we always,
that was a part of the draw for Cypress.
That's how we won a lot of people over was the energy of our live show.
So,
um,
but it took that the rehearsals,
men and I would tell any artists coming up right now,
man,
before you start doing your shows you,
because you may get a hit like that fast these days and you may be called to go
do that show.
Now.
If you don't do that show right and you suck as good as that song is,
you're never going to sell tickets when they fucking say,
hey,
so and so's performing at the,
you know,
this place,
ah fuck that.
I'd rather just listen to the record.
He sucks alive,
you know,
so rehearse,
man,
rehearse and then after that,
hey,
take,
you know,
do what you will.
But those they fucking help man.
You know,
uh,
for your confidence on performing the song,
that's a wise thing to tell people,
man.
Beat up professional,
be a pro.
You can be a professional.
Decide you're professional,
that's turn that fucking work.
That work does give you confidence and it works with fighting.
It works with comedy.
I'm sure it works with everything.
Yeah,
man.
You gotta be proficient,
professional,
red,
d professional,
an official at the same time.
[inaudible] what is the meditation that you do?
Just the self awareness,
you know what I mean?
Like the circular breathing,
you know,
and uh,
concentrating on that and in the moment and then,
you know,
just letting that clear my head,
you know what I mean?
Just focus,
focusing on the breathing.
I mean as what they tell you pretty much in any meditation to focus on the
breathing and all these things and can come through your head.
But if you keep on focusing on that,
you know,
everything sort of goes away and your,
your reset.
So,
you know,
I'll,
I'll do that when,
when I feel maybe some sort of anxiety before going on if I don't feel that I
don't necessarily do the meditation now,
we'll just do the prayer and that's sort of like,
you know,
sets it all in.
But yeah,
like some shows,
man,
all I'll have to let go in a room and just sit there and you know,
do the breathing man in it helps.
People might think about what the fuck is I going to do?
It's going to reset your mind and give you some clarity.
You know?
For me,
at least,
that's what it did.